feat:  Multi Token Standard Contract [NEP] (#245)
near/NEPs: specs/Standards/MultiToken/README.md

- Proposal Name: Multi-Token-Standard
- Start Date: 2021/07/24
- Issue(s): #245.
# Summary
[summary]: #summary

A standard interface for  a multi token standard that supports fungible, semi-fungible, and tokens of any type, allowing for ownership, transfer, and batch transfer of tokens generally regardless of specific type.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation
Having a single contract represent both NFTs and FTs can greatly improve efficiency as demonstrated by Enjin Coin. The ability to make batch requests with multiple asset classes can reduce a many transactions transaciton to a single transaction to trade around both NFTs and FTs that are a part of same token contract.

> Having this will also increase Near's ability to work interoperably with other chains. This will reduce the complexity required to represent these emerging asset classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having this will also increase NEAR's ability to work interoperably with other chains. This will reduce the complexity required to represent these emerging asset classes.
```

Prior art:
- EIP-1155 : https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1155

- This NEP derives some examples and format from: https://github.com/near/NEPs/pull/21

> - Example of an NFT Series: https://github.com/near-apps/gnr8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think we'll have to remove this for now as it does not abide by the NFT standard at this time. An example of this being off: https://github.com/near-apps/gnr8/blob/6ae5916b4c21056e91ab89beff9aa8a56cefd02b/contracts/nft/src/nft_core.rs#L28

- Bob's account is `bob`.
- The precision for `gold` on the games contract is `10^8`. 
- The 5 tokens is `5 * 10^8` or as a number is `500000000`. 

High-level explanation:

Alice needs to issue one transaction to `games` contract to transfer 5 tokens (multiplied by precision) to Bob.
 
Technical calls:

1. `alice` calls `games::mt_transfer({"receiver_id": "bob", "amount": "500000000", "token_id": "g133", "memo": "for my dinner"})`.

#### Simple batch transfer

Alice wants to send and a 1 unique(nft) gemstone, 5 gold and 10 silver tokens to Bob.

Let's assume the following:
- The unique nft `gem` token is represented by `games` with token_id
`uu2`
- The `gold` token is represented by the `games` with token_id `g133`.
- The `silver` token is represented by the `games` with token_id `s133`.
- Alice's account is `alice`.
- Bob's account is `bob`.
- The precision for `gold` on the games contract is `10^8`. 
- The precision for `silver` on the games contract is also `10^8`. 
- The 5 gold tokens is `5 * 10^8` or as a number is `500000000`. 
- The 10 silver tokens is `10 * 10^8` or as a number is `1000000000`. 
- The  1 gem token is `1` or as a number is `1`

High-level explanation:

> Alice needs to issue one transaction to `games` contract to transfer 5 gold tokens and 10 silver tokens (multiplied by precision) and 1 gem to Bob.

Reviewer: great example, thank you

    ///
    /// Arguments:
    /// * `receiver_id`: the valid NEAR account receiving the token.
    /// * `token_ids`: the tokens to transfer
    /// * `amounts`: the amount of tokens to transfer for corresponding token_id
    /// * `approval_ids`: expected approval IDs. A number smaller than
    ///    2^53, and therefore representable as JSON. See Approval Management
    ///    standard for full explanation. Must have same length as token_ids
    /// * `memo` (optional): for use cases that may benefit from indexing or
    ///    providing information for a transfer.
    /// * `msg`: specifies information needed by the receiving contract in
    ///    order to properly handle the transfer. Can indicate both a function to
    ///    call and the parameters to pass to that function.

    fn mt_batch_transfer_call(
        &mut self,
        receiver_id: AccountId,
        token_ids: Vec<TokenId>,
        amounts: Vec<U128>,
        memo: Option<String>,
        msg: String,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<Vec<U128>>;

    /// Get the balance of an an account given token_id. For fungible token returns back amount, for
    /// non fungible token it returns back constant 1.

>     fn balance_of(&self, owner_id: AccountId, token_id: TokenId) -> U128;

Reviewer: `mt_balance_of` instead? I know for FT we use the prefix:
https://github.com/near/NEPs/blame/273aa15150c1bd804ce8b1f47b45cac1257804e1/specs/Standards/FungibleToken/Core.md#L263-L266

to be the scope of interaction with the chain. Doing this we would have tied the implementations to the bounds of FT and NFT. By loosing this up a bit, we are able to be a bit more flexible in what's possible.

Not doing this means we really won't have a great way of supporting use cases where developers need to represent and manage
large varying quantities and types of tokens. They will all have to implement it on their own, and that would make for a fragmented
and weak ecosystem. Where every developer would not be able to reliably trade these assets.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions
The unresolved questions, are really what type of metadata , is required for this spec?
- We decided that having metadata on chain is good, and that at later time we can have a spec for extra data if needed

Can we represent events in this spec, which would improve the ecosystem quite a bit? If we represent events what should those events be?
- We decided events aren't here yet in the ecosystem, in the way we' like them to be so they are't apart of this standard

Should we have a spec for TokenType?

> - We decided TokkenType shouldn't be exposed for the public interface consumption. We will leave this description in the hands of the implementers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We decided TokenType shouldn't be exposed for the public interface consumption. We will leave this description in the hands of the implementers
```

Should we have a spec for offchain metadata?

> - We decided no spec for offchain metadta yet but maybe in the future

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We decided no spec for offchain metadata yet but maybe in the future
```

- Get supply of tokens per id
- Get supply of tokens in batch per id
- Represent non fungibility of tokens
- Represent fungibility of tokens
- Transfer tokens by id in batch
- Use these tokens on an exchange
- Refund storage costs for fungible tokens

There are a few concepts in the scenarios above:
- **Total supply**. It's the total number of tokens in circulation.
- **Balance owner**. An account ID that owns some amount of tokens.
- **Transfer**. Moves some amount from one account to another account.
- **Fungibility**. An indistinguishable amount of tokens to exchange 
- **Non Fungibility**. Tokens that are differentiable from each other.

### Real scenarios
 
#### Simple transfer

Alice wants to send 5 gold tokens to Bob.

Let's assume the following:
- The `gold` token is represented by the `games` with token_id `g133`.
- Alice's account is `alice`.
- Bob's account is `bob`.
- The precision for `gold` on the games contract is `10^8`. 
- The 5 tokens is `5 * 10^8` or as a number is `500000000`. 

High-level explanation:

Alice needs to issue one transaction to `games` contract to transfer 5 tokens (multiplied by precision) to Bob.
 
Technical calls:

> 1. `alice` calls `games::mt_transfer({"receiver_id": "bob", "amount": "500000000", "token_id": "g133"})`.

Reviewer 2: Even for a simple transfer, it would be better to let user choose to have a msg payload (with max 64 bytes long) as remark or memo to this transfer. as this way:
```suggestion
 `games::mt_transfer({"receiver_id": "bob", "amount": "500000000", "token_id": "g133", "memo": "for my dinner"})`.
```

#### Simple batch transfer

Alice wants to send and a 1 unique(nft) gemstone, 5 gold and 10 silver tokens to Bob.

Let's assume the following:
- The unique nft `gem` token is represented by `games` with token_id
`uu2`
- The `gold` token is represented by the `games` with token_id `g133`.
- The `silver` token is represented by the `games` with token_id `s133`.
- Alice's account is `alice`.
- Bob's account is `bob`.
- The precision for `gold` on the games contract is `10^8`. 
- The precision for `silver` on the games contract is also `10^8`. 
- The 5 gold tokens is `5 * 10^8` or as a number is `500000000`. 
- The 10 silver tokens is `10 * 10^8` or as a number is `1000000000`. 
- The  1 gem token is `1` or as a number is `1`

High-level explanation:

Alice needs to issue one transaction to `games` contract to transfer 5 gold tokens and 10 silver tokens (multiplied by precision) and 1 gem to Bob.
 
Technical calls:

> 1. `alice` calls `games::mt_transfer_batch({"receiver_id": "bob", "amounts": ["500000000", "1000000000", "1"], "token_ids": ["g133", "s133", "uu2"]})`.

Reviewer 2: Same as non-batch version of simple transfer, I suggest a memo field in it.
```suggestion
1. `alice` calls `games::mt_transfer_batch({"receiver_id": "bob", "amounts": ["500000000", "1000000000", "1"], "token_ids": ["g133", "s133", "uu2"], "memo": "well done"})`.
```

- The compound contract can work with many different token contracts and types.

High-level explanation:

Alice needs to issue a single transaction to `games` that will internally issue a cross contract call to `compound`. 

The initial transaction to `games` is made with `compound` as the receiver of a set token_ids and amounts from `alice`.

This call then waits on a response from `compound`. If `compound` responds with failure, the tx is aborted. 

Otherwise `games` contract accepts the results and resolves the promise completing the transaction.

- If transfer succeeded, `compound` can increase local ownership for `alice` to 1000 for `gold` token_id `g133`

- If transfer fails, `compound` doesn't need to do anything in current example, but maybe can notify `alice` of unsuccessful transfer.

Technical calls:
1. `alice` calls `games::mt_transfer_call({"receiver_id": "compound", amount: "1000000000000000000000", "token_id": "g133", msg: "interest-building"})`.
   During the `mt_transfer_call` call, `compound` does the following:
     fn mt_on_transfer(
        &mut self,
        sender_id: AccountId,
        token_ids: Vec<TokenId>,
        amounts: Vec<U128>,

>         msg: String,

Reviewer 2: to support binary, I suggest using Base64 format
```suggestion
       msg: Base64VecU8,
```

Author: Hey we were just talking about this and wanted to know if you had a particular use case for this being base64VecU8?

Author: we talked about this offline and string seems to be sufficient here.

- If transfer succeeded, `compound` can increase local ownership for `alice` to 1000 for `gold` token_id `g133`

- If transfer fails, `compound` doesn't need to do anything in current example, but maybe can notify `alice` of unsuccessful transfer.

Technical calls:
1. `alice` calls `games::mt_transfer_batch_call({"receiver_id": "compound", amounts: ["1000000000000000000000","1000000000000000000000", "1"], "token_ids": ["g133","s133","uu2"], msg: "interest-building"})`.
   During the `mt_transfer_call` call, `compound` does the following:
     fn mt_on_transfer(
        &mut self,
        sender_id: AccountId,
        token_ids: Vec<TokenId>,
        amounts: Vec<U128>,
        msg: String,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<Vec<U128>>;
}
    1. calls `compound::mt_on_transfer({"sender_id": "alice", amounts: ["1000000000000000000000","1000000000000000000000", "1"], "token_ids": ["g133","s133","uu2"], msg: "interest-building"})`
    2. `compound` resolves the request/fails and `games` contract handles response from the promise with `games::mt_resolve_transfer` returning refunded amount if there is any or handling follow up from the result of compound cross contract call

> 

Reviewer 2: How about take single transfer as a special case of batch transfer, and unify the interface into two: simple_transfer and transfer_call?

Author: if there's no pushback I'd be ok with this, I think the only reason to not do it that I can think of is if there's some gas saving operation that can be obtained from not having a single interface that just supports multiple token-ids

Author: Offline we discussed and came to the conclusion it'll be better to keep the functions separate.

```
pub trait StorageManagement {
    // if `registration_only=true` MUST refund above the minimum balance if the account didn't exist and
    //     refund full deposit if the account exists.
    fn storage_deposit(
        &mut self,
        token_ids: Vec<TokenId>,
        account_id: Option<AccountId>,
        registration_only: Option<bool>,
    ) -> StorageBalance;

    /// Withdraw specified amount of available Ⓝ for predecessor account.
    ///
    /// This method is safe to call. It MUST NOT remove data.
    ///
    /// `amount` is sent as a string representing an unsigned 128-bit integer. If
    /// omitted, contract MUST refund full `available` balance. If `amount` exceeds
    /// predecessor account's available balance, contract MUST panic.
    ///
    /// If predecessor account not registered, contract MUST panic.
    ///
    /// MUST require exactly 1 yoctoNEAR attached balance to prevent restricted
    /// function-call access-key call (UX wallet security)
    ///
    /// Returns the StorageBalance structure showing updated balances.

>     fn storage_withdraw(&mut self, token_ids:Vec<TokenId>, amount: Option<U128>) -> StorageBalance;

Reviewer 2: Maybe 1 yoctoNEAR is not necessary in withdraw cause the token will go back to the account that key indicates, won't cause any loss for the user even if an access key is stolen.

Author: So for this is a preventative measure , to push users towards the wallet to make sure they don't get fished or do something they weren't intending to do. Perhaps we can do an unsafe for applications that need this in the future.

    /// Unregisters the predecessor account and returns the storage NEAR deposit back.
    ///
    /// If the predecessor account is not registered, the function MUST return `false` without panic.
    ///
    /// If `force=true` the function SHOULD ignore account balances (burn them) and close the account.
    /// Otherwise, MUST panic if caller has a positive registered balance (eg token holdings) or
    ///     the contract doesn't support force unregistration.
    /// MUST require exactly 1 yoctoNEAR attached balance to prevent restricted function-call access-key call
    /// (UX wallet security)
    /// Returns `true` iff the account was unregistered.
    /// Returns `false` iff account was not registered before.
    fn storage_unregister(&mut self, token_ids:Vec<TokenId>, force: Option<bool>) -> Vec<bool>;

    fn storage_balance_bounds(&self, token_id:TokenId, account_id: Option<AccountId>) -> StorageBalanceBounds;

>     fn storage_balance_bounds_batch(&self, token_id:Vec<TokenId>, account_id: Option<AccountId>) -> StorageBalanceBounds;

Reviewer 2: combine those two into one,
```suggestion
    fn storage_balance_bounds(&self, token_id:Vec<TokenId>, account_id: Option<AccountId>) -> StorageBalanceBounds;
```

    fn storage_balance_of(&self, token_id:TokenId, account_id: AccountId) -> Option<StorageBalance>;

>     fn storage_balance_of_batch(&self, token_ids:Vec<TokenId>, account_id: AccountId) -> Option<StorageBalance>;

Reviewer 2: Same, unify them
```suggestion
    fn storage_balance_of(&self, token_ids:Vec<TokenId>, account_id: AccountId) -> Option<StorageBalance>;
```

- Proposal Name: Multi-Token-Standard
- Start Date: 2021/07/24
- Issue(s): #245.

Version `1.0.0`

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

> A standard interface for  a multi token standard that supports fungible, semi-fungible, and tokens of any type, allowing for ownership, transfer, and batch transfer of tokens generally regardless of specific type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A standard interface for a multi token standard that supports fungible, semi-fungible, and tokens of any type, allowing for ownership, transfer, and batch transfer of tokens generally regardless of specific type.
```

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> Having a single contract represent both NFTs and FTs can greatly improve efficiency as demonstrated by Enjin Coin. The ability to make batch requests with multiple asset classes can reduce a many transactions transaciton to a single transaction to trade around both NFTs and FTs that are a part of same token contract.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Having a single contract represent both NFTs and FTs can greatly improve efficiency as demonstrated by Enjin Coin. The ability to make batch requests with multiple asset classes can allow operations that currently require _many_ transactions to be completed in a single transaction that can transfer both NFTs and FTs that are a part of same token contract.
```

Having this will also increase Near's ability to work interoperably with other chains. This will reduce the complexity required to represent these emerging asset classes.

Prior art:
- EIP-1155 : https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1155

- This NEP derives some examples and format from: https://github.com/near/NEPs/pull/21

- Things from the NFT Discussions: https://github.com/near/NEPs/discussions/171

- Things from the NFT Discussions: https://gov.near.org/t/nft-standard-discussion/853

> Discussions out of band:

Author: That's a good question. Out of band discussions are meetings that we had that weren't captured in github. I could maybe relabel this as Additional discussions?

> Discussions out of band:

Reviewer 3: :+1: sounds good

 - https://gov.near.org/t/multi-token-standard-discussion/2917
 - https://github.com/shipsgold/multi-token-standard-impl/tree/main/meetings 

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

We should be able to do the following:
- Get balance of token per user

> - Get balance in batch of a user

Author: Great catch this could be more clear. 
```
Get balance of a single token_id per account
Get balance of multiple token_ids per account
```
Might be more clear. Token types aren't a thing that's exposed, in multi token standard it's only token_id that acts
as the interface for everything.

> - Get balance in batch of a user

Reviewer 3: If `token_id` is the 'key' for _everything_, how does someone identify what token_ids they own on a particular contract?

- Get supply of tokens per id

> - Get supply of tokens in batch per id

Author: The could be renamed into  
```
Get total supply of a token by token_id
Get total supply of tokens per token_ids in batch
```

Let's assume the following:
- The `gold` token is represented  by the `games` contract with token_id `g133` .
- Alice's account is `alice`.
- The compound interest contract is `compound`.
- The precision on `gold` token is `10^18`. 
- The 1000 tokens is `1000 * 10^18` or as a number is `1000000000000000000000`. 
- The compound contract can work with many different token contracts and types.

High-level explanation:

Alice needs to issue a single transaction to `games` that will internally issue a cross contract call to `compound`. 

The initial transaction to `games` is made with `compound` as the receiver of a set token_ids and amounts from `alice`.

This call then waits on a response from `compound`. If `compound` responds with failure, the tx is aborted. 

Otherwise `games` contract accepts the results and resolves the promise completing the transaction.

- If transfer succeeded, `compound` can increase local ownership for `alice` to 1000 for `gold` token_id `g133`

- If transfer fails, `compound` doesn't need to do anything in current example, but maybe can notify `alice` of unsuccessful transfer.

> 

Author: Compound.near is expected to implement the TokenReceiver trait and games.near is expected to make cross contract call to `compound::mt_on_transfer`. games.near will then handle the promise that compound::mt_on_transfer returns. This promise can be a failure response, if compound::mt_on_transfer returns fails. This might look like the following below:  
```
pub fn games.near::made_up_send_tokens() {
compound.near::mt_on_transfer()
.then(ext_self::mt_resolve_transfer(...)) 
}  
```

> 

Reviewer 3: I see a lot of `must` wording around `mt_on_transfer` and `mt_resolve_transfer`, but this example makes it sound like we're talking about a completely optional thing.  Are these two different cases?

> 

Author: mt_resolve_transfer can be called anything and isn't strictly required, however the developer is encouraged to evaluate the mt_on_transfer result.   So mt_resolve_transfer is a this is how you handle the result of calling mt_on_transfer. 

Contracts that want to receive tokens are required to implement mt_on_transfer.

    /// * `amount`: amount of tokens to transfer for token_id
    /// * `memo` (optional): for use cases that may benefit from indexing or
    ///    providing information for a transfer.
    /// * `msg`: specifies information needed by the receiving contract in
    ///    order to properly handle the transfer. Can indicate both a function to
    ///    call and the parameters to pass to that function.
    fn mt_transfer_call(
        &mut self,
        receiver_id: AccountId,
        token_id: TokenId,
        amount: U128,
        memo: Option<String>,
        msg: String,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<U128>;

    /// Batch token transfer. Transfer a tokens given token_ids and amounts. The token ids can correspond to  
    /// either Non-Fungible Tokens or Fungible Tokens or some combination of the two. The token ids
    /// are used to segment the types on a per contract implementation basis.
    ///
    /// Requirements
    /// * Caller of the method must attach a deposit of 1 yoctoⓃ for security purposes
    /// * Contract MUST panic if called by someone other than token owner or,
    ///   if using Approval Management, one of the approved accounts

>     /// * `approval_id` is for use with Approval Management,

Reviewer 3: I see reference to `approval_id` here, but it's not in the function signature?

    ///   see https://nomicon.io/Standards/NonFungibleToken/ApprovalManagement.html
    /// * If using Approval Management, contract MUST nullify approved accounts on
    ///   successful transfer.
    /// * TODO: needed? Both accounts must be registered with the contract for transfer to
    ///   succeed. See see https://nomicon.io/Standards/StorageManagement.html
    /// * The token_ids vec and amounts vec must be of equal length and equate to a 1-1 mapping
    ///   between amount and id. In the event that they do not line up the call should fail
    ///
    /// Arguments:
    /// * `receiver_id`: the valid NEAR account receiving the token
    /// * `token_ids`: the tokens to transfer
    /// * `amounts`: the amount of tokens to transfer for corresponding token_id

>     /// * `approval_ids`: expected approval ID. A number smaller than

Reviewer 3: I see reference to `approval_ids` here, but it's not in the function signature?

Author: Historically, at one point approval_ids I had added to the spec, but opted to yank it out, we'll bring this up today so I'll leave this here for the discussion.

Author: So from our last conversation, approval management is back in the spec

    ///    2^53, and therefore representable as JSON. See Approval Management
    ///    standard for full explanation. Must have same length as token_ids
    /// * `memo` (optional): for use cases that may benefit from indexing or
    ///    providing information for a transfer

    fn mt_batch_transfer(
        &mut self,
        receiver_id: AccountId,
        token_ids: Vec<TokenId>,
        amounts: Vec<U128>,
        memo: Option<String>,

>     );

Reviewer 3: Is there no desire to be able to transfer to multiple receivers with the same batch transfer call?
If there is a use-case for this, but the initial spec here doesn't incorporate it, should we name these methods differently in some a way so that there is 'room' in the API to add a batch transfer method later that supports multiple recipients?

Author: Not sure here. I think alot of the concern with that is gas price. Outside of that I think that a different prefix might be used some thing like mt_multi_batch_transfer. 

Batch transfer is used to try and line up with erc-1155 and aid in developer familiarity.

    /// Batch transfer token/s and call a method on a receiver contract. A successful
    /// workflow will end in a success execution outcome to the callback on the MultiToken
    /// contract at the method `mt_resolve_batch_transfer`.
    ///

>     /// You can think of this as being similar to attaching  tokens to a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// You can think of this as being similar to attaching NEAR tokens as a `deposit` to a
```

    /// receiver contract.
    ///
    /// Requirements:
    /// * Caller of the method must attach a deposit of 1 yoctoⓃ for security
    ///   purposes
    /// * Contract MUST panic if called by someone other than token owner or,
    ///   if using Approval Management, one of the approved accounts
    /// * The receiving contract must implement `mt_on_transfer` according to the
    ///   standard. If it does not, MultiToken contract's `mt_resolve_batch_transfer` MUST deal
    ///   with the resulting failed cross-contract call and roll back the transfer.
    /// * Contract MUST implement the behavior described in `mt_resolve_batch_transfer`
    /// * `approval_id` is for use with Approval Management extension, see
    ///   that document for full explanation.
    /// * If using Approval Management, contract MUST nullify approved accounts on
    ///   successful transfer.
    ///
    /// Arguments:
    /// * `receiver_id`: the valid NEAR account receiving the token.
    /// * `token_ids`: the tokens to transfer
    /// * `amounts`: the amount of tokens to transfer for corresponding token_id

>     /// * `approval_ids`: expected approval IDs. A number smaller than

Reviewer 3: I see reference to `approval_ids` here, but it's not in the function signature?

    ///    2^53, and therefore representable as JSON. See Approval Management
    ///    standard for full explanation. Must have same length as token_ids
    /// * `memo` (optional): for use cases that may benefit from indexing or
    ///    providing information for a transfer.
    /// * `msg`: specifies information needed by the receiving contract in
    ///    order to properly handle the transfer. Can indicate both a function to
    ///    call and the parameters to pass to that function.

    fn mt_batch_transfer_call(
        &mut self,
        receiver_id: AccountId,
        token_ids: Vec<TokenId>,
        amounts: Vec<U128>,
        memo: Option<String>,
        msg: String,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<Vec<U128>>;

    /// Get the balance of an an account given token_id. For fungible token returns back amount, for

>     /// non fungible token it returns back constant 1.

Reviewer 3: This seems weird -- I assume that this call must return 0 if someone doesn't own a particular fungible token, but this text makes it sound like it is an absolute constant, which I might expect for total supply, but not for balance of?

Author: We can broach this in a meeting, it's unclear if anyone feels like this doesn't make sense. In theory the comment is a bit of an over reach. I don't understand the intent of the  underlying implementation the multi token standard is a bit more free form. So there are fewer rules about what should and shouldn't happen. In this case  we're in alignment with erc-1155 suggestion. Although it's not a hard rule so I should probably just make it a suggestion. We're a little different because we use string token ids instead of numeric, but the same 
concept applies I think.
From ERC-1155: 
```
//
uint256 baseTokenNFT = 12345 << 128;
uint128 indexNFT = 50;

uint256 baseTokenFT = 54321 << 128;

balanceOf(baseTokenNFT, msg.sender); // Get balance of the base token for non-fungible set 12345 (this MAY be used to get balance of the user for all of this token set if the implementation wishes as a convenience).
balanceOf(baseTokenNFT + indexNFT, msg.sender); // Get balance of the token at index 50 for non-fungible set 12345 (should be 1 if user owns the individual non-fungible token or 0 if they do not).
balanceOf(baseTokenFT, msg.sender); // Get balance of the fungible base token 54321.
```

My vote is to just make the language more suggestive vs. an absolute rule.

>     /// Get the balance of an an account given token_id. For fungible token returns back amount, for
>     /// non fungible token it returns back constant 1.
>     fn mt_balance_of(&self, owner_id: AccountId, token_id: TokenId) -> U128;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// Get the balance of an account for the given `token_id`. For fungible token returns back amount, for
    /// non fungible token it returns back constant 1.
    fn mt_balance_of(&self, owner_id: AccountId, token_id: TokenId) -> U128;
```

For NFTs where a 'series' is minted (e.g. Paras cards with 5 total supply), will they be represented with separate `token_id`s?

Author: yes at the moment that's the thought. how it's stored is up to the implementer.

    /// Get the balances of an an account given token_ids. For fungible token returns back amount, for

>     /// non fungible token it returns back constant 1. returns vector of balances corresponding to token_ids

Reviewer 3: This seems weird -- I assume that this call _must_ return `0` if someone doesn't own a particular fungible token, but this text makes it sound like it is an absolute constant, which I might expect for `total supply`, but not for `balance of`?

Author: This behavior is consistent with erc-1155, this should be a suggestion though probably not in stone, because you can do whatever you like, but the logic devs may be expecting is something like the following from erc-1155
```
uint256 baseTokenNFT = 12345 << 128;
uint128 indexNFT = 50;
uint256 baseTokenFT = 54321 << 128;
balanceOf(baseTokenNFT, msg.sender); // Get balance of the base token for non-fungible set 12345 (this MAY be used to get balance of the user for all of this token set if the implementation wishes as a convenience).
balanceOf(baseTokenNFT + indexNFT, msg.sender); // Get balance of the token at index 50 for non-fungible set 12345 (should be 1 if user owns the individual non-fungible token or 0 if they do not).
balanceOf(baseTokenFT, msg.sender); // Get balance of the fungible base token 54321.
```

Author: One aspect of this is that our token ids can be a bit more free form, depending on what users desire, to be consistent with our NFT spec as well our token ids are string. This means that the assumption of addng a number may or may not hold. I'm not sure how consistent this is across erc-1155.  

If this is a method that needs to be supported which is some sort of enumeration, we might consider some of the enumeration standard considerations.

    /// in a 1-1 mapping

>     fn mt_balance_of_batch(&self, owner_id: AccountId, token_ids: Vec<TokenId>) -> Vec<U128>;

Reviewer 3: Is there no desire to be able to get the balance of multiple different owners with the same batch balance call?

If there is a use-case for this, but the initial spec here doesn't incorporate it, should we name these methods differently in some a way so that there is 'room' in the API to add a batch balance of method later that supports multiple owners?

Author: There wasn't a desire at the time to get all the users of a token_id. The thought here was on trying to get familiarity and reducing the scope of implementing the spec. There could be room for multiple owners across multiple token ids, where the resulting return type is more complex. 

This would deviate however from same the more widely adopted standard in erc-1155. In this case we could put something like this in the enumeration extension, which might make sense to slice and dice tokens in a way outside of contract implementers use case. 

I think the smaller the spec is the better . That said let's bring it up to the group and see what they think if we want to make room this addition :D .

    /// Returns the total supply of the token in a decimal string representation given token_id.
    fn mt_total_supply(&self, token_id: TokenId) -> U128;

    // Returns the total supplies of the tokens given by token_ids in a decimal string representation.

>     fn mt_total_supply_batch(&self, token_ids: Vec<TokenId>) -> Vec<U128>;

Reviewer 3: Why a decimal string representation and not the raw `amount` values?  If I have to provide `amount` using the precision from contract metadata, I would expect to have to do the same for other values the smart contract returns, otherwise I need to handle two different `bases` depending on where data came from as a developer interacting with these contracts -- for example, if I want to send the _entire supply_ of a token from one account to another, I will need to use `mt_total_supply` to get the decimal representation, then I will need to _convert it_ it by the contract metadata precision before I can pass the value into a call to transfer that supply amount.  Feels like all of the methods should return `raw` and it should be expected that anyone interacting with the contract needs to use the metadata that the contract exposes to convert the raw values.

Author: this actually just a mistake here, mt_total_supply should be the raw value here . Nice catch!  i'll bring this up to just confirm everyones on the same page in next meeting.

}
```
### Receiver Trait
#### Notes
- TokenId is of type String
```
pub trait MultiTokenReceiver {
    /// Take some action after receiving a MultiToken-tokens token
    ///
    /// Requirements:

>     /// * Contract MUST restrict calls to this function to a set of whitelisted MultiToken

Reviewer 3: Why? It would be good to have an explanation of the reasoning behind this requirement here.

Author: The reasoning here is that you want to be able to trust the contract that's transferring tokens to you, you could have logic that's simply doesn't understand or is not compatible with the token that's being transferred. Your contract could be for pears, that you use to make pair juice. If you don't filter who can send tokens, you might think you're receiving pears, but you're really getting apples. 

Alternatively it makes your contract have to guard against potential bad actors or have a way of confirming transfer of tokens. 

I'll think of a way to say this more succinctly.

    ///   contracts
    ///
    /// Arguments:
    /// * `sender_id`: the sender of `mt_transfer_call`

>     /// * `previous_owner_id`: the account that owned the tokens prior to it being

Reviewer 3: I see `previous_owner_id` listed here, but it doesn't appear in the function signature below?

Author: yeah its a relic of approval management, that was voted out. good catch.

        msg: String,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<Vec<U128>>;
}
```
### Resolver Trait
#### Notes
- TokenId is of type String
```
/// Used when MultiTokens are transferred using `mt_transfer_call`. This is the method that's called after `mt_on_transfer`. This trait is implemented on the MultiToken contract.
pub trait MultiTokenResolver {
    /// Finalize an `mt_transfer_call` chain of cross-contract calls.
    ///
    /// The `mt_transfer_call` process:
    ///
    /// 1. Sender calls `mt_transfer_call` on MultiToken contract
    /// 2. MultiToken contract transfers token from sender to receiver
    /// 3. MultiToken contract calls `mt_on_transfer` on receiver contract
    /// 4+. [receiver contract may make other cross-contract calls]
    /// N. MultiToken contract resolves promise chain with `mt_resolve_transfer`, and may
    ///    transfer token back to sender
    ///
    /// Requirements:
    /// * Contract MUST forbid calls to this function by any account except self
    /// * If promise chain failed, contract MUST revert token transfer
    /// * If promise chain resolves with `true`, contract MUST return token to
    ///   `sender_id`
    ///
    /// Arguments:

>     /// * `previous_owner_id`: the owner prior to the call to `mt_transfer_call`

Reviewer 3: I see `previous_owner_id` listed here, but it doesn't appear in the function signature below?

    /// * `receiver_id`: the `receiver_id` argument given to `mt_transfer_call`
    /// * `token_ids`: the `token_ids` argument given to `mt_transfer_call`

>     /// * `approvals`: if using Approval Management, contract MUST provide

Reviewer 3: I see `approvals` referenced here, but it's not shown in the function signature below?  It's not clear from reading this what exactly is inside of this; we say it 'may be multiple sets of approvals' is it an array of arrays?

    ///   set of original approved accounts in this argument, and restore these
    ///   approved accounts in case of revert. In this case it may be multiple sets of approvals
    ///
    /// Returns true if tokens were successfully transferred to `receiver_id`.
    fn mt_resolve_transfer(
        &mut self,
        sender_id: AccountId,
        receiver_id: AccountId,
        token_ids: Vec<TokenId>,
        amounts: Vec<U128>,
    ) -> Vec<U128>;
}
```
### Storage Management Trait
#### Notes

> This is semi necessary for ft token types to be able to refund users for storage of many different token types like gold/silver... this might be slightly out of scope

Reviewer 3: IMO, If we're about to merge this to be an actual standard, we need to decide if it is or isn't out of scope first, otherwise people reading the standard will be confused by the ambiguity.

If this functionality is fully implemented in the NEP141 path, IMO it should be supported in this specification also.

Author: I think we voted on this a while back to evict approval management and if it were necessary implement it later. This is a mistake I left in the spec from that time period. I'll yank it out and if we decide on approval management add comments back.

Author: approval management is likely to stay, after the last meeting going to resolve this for now, as the approval management part of the spec is up for review.

```
pub trait StorageManagement {
    // if `registration_only=true` MUST refund above the minimum balance if the account didn't exist and
    //     refund full deposit if the account exists.
    fn storage_deposit(
        &mut self,
        token_ids: Vec<TokenId>,
        account_id: Option<AccountId>,
        registration_only: Option<bool>,
    ) -> StorageBalance;

    /// Withdraw specified amount of available Ⓝ for predecessor account.
    ///
    /// This method is safe to call. It MUST NOT remove data.
    ///
    /// `amount` is sent as a string representing an unsigned 128-bit integer. If
    /// omitted, contract MUST refund full `available` balance. If `amount` exceeds
    /// predecessor account's available balance, contract MUST panic.
    ///

>     /// If predecessor account not registered, contract MUST panic.

Reviewer 3: `predecessor account` is referenced throughout this, but the arguments are `account_id` -- is `predecessor account` the account from `account_id`?  If so, can we refer to it by its argument name instead? If not, what is the difference between the predecessor account and `account_id`?

Author: Predecessor account talks mostly about the calling context of the methods, and account_id is account_id because anyone can make a deposit for any account. 

In the case that I want to pay for your storage on my account, I can call storage_deposit(ids,Some(daryl),None);
The account calling context though it is implementation specific would be env::predecessor::account_id(), which would mean I make a deposit on your behalf. 

In the instance of the other methods, The comments I believe help scope the context in which the methods are intended to be called. So the withdraw is scoped to the predecessor. 

There is no ability within storage management for the payer, to withdraw the deposit they paid on the behalf of the user. This can be done, but in a different scope. So the other thing here is that with force, it would yield power to wipe out or burn holdings of the existing user. It would be a kind of back door of messing someone over through storage management.

That kind of backdoor is also why there's a 1-yocto deposit for withdraw to force a wallet confirmation. 

This is also mostly copy pasta from storage management, with adjustments to deal with batching and token_ids.

    ///
    /// MUST require exactly 1 yoctoNEAR attached balance to prevent restricted
    /// function-call access-key call (UX wallet security)
    ///

>     /// Returns the StorageBalance structure showing updated balances.

Reviewer 3: Is the `StorageBalance` structure still accurate/correct for this standard?  Do we need to be able to keep track of the amount of storage _each token type_ requires?

Author: Here's an example of what this looks like in practice. https://github.com/shipsgold/multi-token-standard-impl/blob/feat/initial-token/multi_token/src/core/storage_impl.rs
 
 In this standard there is no explicit token type, that information is encapsulated by token id , where developers can decide how they'd like to label or identify the type of token they'd like to have. This is mostly in alignment with erc-1155. The difference is erc-1155 restricts tokenId to uint256 so users must bitshift and figure out what kind of mask if any mask they want to put on token id. This same thing can be done with string if users care to implement it.
 
 https://github.com/shipsgold/multi-token-standard-impl/blob/feat/initial-token/

Author: also from the meeting notes https://github.com/shipsgold/multi-token-standard-impl/blob/main/meetings/2021-08-17-meeting-notes.md#storage-management-overview-2600 for background.

    fn storage_withdraw(&mut self, token_ids:Vec<TokenId>, amount: Option<U128>) -> StorageBalance;

    /// Unregisters the predecessor account and returns the storage NEAR deposit back.
    ///
    /// If the predecessor account is not registered, the function MUST return `false` without panic.
    ///
    /// If `force=true` the function SHOULD ignore account balances (burn them) and close the account.
    /// Otherwise, MUST panic if caller has a positive registered balance (eg token holdings) or
    ///     the contract doesn't support force unregistration.
    /// MUST require exactly 1 yoctoNEAR attached balance to prevent restricted function-call access-key call
    /// (UX wallet security)

>     /// Returns `true` iff the account was unregistered.
>     /// Returns `false` iff account was not registered before.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// Returns `true` if the account was successfully unregistered by this call.
    /// Returns `false` if account was already unregistered.
```

    fn storage_unregister(&mut self, token_ids:Vec<TokenId>, force: Option<bool>) -> Vec<bool>;

>     fn storage_balance_bounds(&self, token_id:Vec<TokenId>, account_id: Option<AccountId>) -> StorageBalanceBounds;

Reviewer 3: What is this function for? Seems like it is missing a description?

Author: // Returns minimum and maximum allowed balance amounts to interact with this
// contract given  specified token_ids.

    fn storage_balance_of(&self, token_ids:Vec<TokenId>, account_id: AccountId) -> Option<StorageBalance>;
}
```

### Metadata Trait
```

> pub struct MultiTokenMetadata {

Reviewer 3: 1. It would be nice if it was clear which of these properties apply to FungibleTokens and which apply to NonFungibleTokens.
2. How does this let us identify if a particular token_id is a NonFungible or Fungible type token?  I would assume that there would be a specific property indicating whether a particular `token_id` represents fungible or non-fungible token?

Author: There's no split, not really. We had a long discussion about what was possible and not without leaking implementation details. The multi token standard is about represent all kinds of tokens, so we decided it didn't make sense to have an explicit token type. 

That consumers would have to make their best assumption as to the intent of the developers.  Here's a pointer to the discussion there:

https://github.com/shipsgold/multi-token-standard-impl/blob/main/meetings/2021-08-17-meeting-notes.md#wallet-indexder-3204

Ultimately you are the wallet voice in the room, so you might have more perspective on it than say myself ref,paras, and co. So we want to hear your opinion on this. I believe other wallets have this issue as well such as metamask, generally they allow people to define their collections. 

There are several field that really only make alot sense as fungible such as symbol and decimals, but with this standard there is no hard and fast rule what a FT or NFT or inbetween token is. 

So if you want wallet to represent it as blank... it's up to the consumers to define what they'd like to represent.

Alot of that decision was ideological in not wanting to restrict developers into an explicit understanding of a type. I think the room was flexible bring your thoughts to the next meeting it'll definitely be helpful.

    pub spec: String,              // required, essentially a version like "mt-1.0.0"
    pub name: String,              // required, ex. "Mosaics"
    pub symbol: Option<String>,            // ex. "MOSIAC"
    pub icon: Option<String>,      // Data URL
    pub base_uri: Option<String>, // Centralized gateway known to have reliable access to decentralized storage assets referenced by `reference` or `media` URLs
    // supports metadata_uri interface that interpolates {id} in the string
    pub decimals: Option<u8>, // Option to specify precision if required 
    pub title: Option<String>, // ex. "Arch Nemesis: Mail Carrier" or "Parcel #5055"
    pub description: Option<String>, // free-form description
    pub media: Option<String>, // URL to associated media, preferably to decentralized, content-addressed storage
    pub media_hash: Option<Base64VecU8>, // Base64-encoded sha256 hash of content referenced by the `media` field. Required if `media` is included.

>     pub copies: Option<u64>, // number of copies of this set of metadata in existence when token was minted.

Reviewer 3: We call this `total supply` elsewhere; we call it `copies` here? Feels like unnecessary extra cognitive load to have these be different

Author: Copies could be removed, it's just some metadata field, it's unclear how the user would like to use this, maybe it's fixed supply maybe it's not. In fact we had some discussion here about representing supply in metadata, but that is of course strange for ft, but in reality, it's really developers choice. I'm happy to boot copies if people feel good about that . Let's bridge in the next meeting.

    pub issued_at: Option<String>, // ISO 8601 datetime when token was issued or minted
    pub expires_at: Option<String>, // ISO 8601 datetime when token expires
    pub starts_at: Option<String>, // ISO 8601 datetime when token starts being valid
    pub updated_at: Option<String>, // ISO 8601 datetime when token was last updated
    pub extra: Option<String>, // anything extra the NFT wants to store on-chain. Can be stringified JSON.
    pub reference: Option<String>, // URL to an off-chain JSON file with more info.
    pub reference_hash: Option<Base64VecU8>, // Base64-encoded sha256 hash of JSON from reference field. Required if `reference` is included.
}

/// Offers details on the  metadata.
pub trait MultiTokenMetadataProvider {
    fn mt_metadata(&self, token_id: TokenId) -> MultiTokenMetadata;
}
```
# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

> Doing this adds another spec and codebase to the standards. It could be seen that we could leave this to developers to implement custom solutions and have them create a token that just uses FT and NFT together. There is some additional complexity

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Doing this adds another spec and codebase to the standards. It could be seen that we could leave this to developers to implement custom solutions and have them create a contract that implements both `NEP-141` and `NEP-171` methods together. There is some additional complexity
```

In the design phase it was considered to simply rely on the underlying implementations of fungible tokens and non-fungible tokens
to be the scope of interaction with the chain. Doing this we would have tied the implementations to the bounds of FT and NFT. By loosing this up a bit, we are able to be a bit more flexible in what's possible.

Not doing this means we really won't have a great way of supporting use cases where developers need to represent and manage
large varying quantities and types of tokens. They will all have to implement it on their own, and that would make for a fragmented
and weak ecosystem. Where every developer would not be able to reliably trade these assets.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions
The unresolved questions, are really what type of metadata , is required for this spec?
- We decided that having metadata on chain is good, and that at later time we can have a spec for extra data if needed

Can we represent events in this spec, which would improve the ecosystem quite a bit? If we represent events what should those events be?

> - We decided events aren't here yet in the ecosystem, in the way we' like them to be so they are't apart of this standard

Reviewer 3: This is a top concern currently; as it currently stands the indexer has no insights into third-party minting and as such we can't easily show tokens that were minted to a specific user via a callback in the wallet.  I think it would be a _really good_ idea to _define logs that should be generated as part of this standard_; those logs will be critical for the indexer to be able to identify who received which tokens as part of a complex transaction involving cross-contract callbacks; if you leave these out of the spec and a bunch of people implement contracts based on this, you will forever have a subset of tokens that are 'invisible' to the indexer (and thus, to the wallet) due to this. cc: @frol @mikedotexe

Author: We were really bullish on a log representation as well initially, but we wanted to have a useful standard prior to this. It's part of the reason why we even supply in the spec. That's because we don't have great binary events, that would be used in doing nice aggregations. The aggregations would allow more visibility into what's happening. I think https://gov.near.org/t/ethereum-like-logs-on-near/3509 . Has alot of the thinking around events. 

Otherwise we'd probably replicate the event structure from erc-1155 with transfer 0 being the equivalent initial minting event. We haven't had a long discussion about this because of the emerging events structure that might land sometime in the future. 

We also thought that logs might be insufficient as is to achieve what we'd like . If you have thoughts on a transitional system I'm sure we'd be down to explore that :D

Should we have a spec for TokenType?

> - We decided TokenType shouldn't be exposed for the public interface consumption. We will leave this description in the hands of the implementers

Reviewer 3: Is `TokenType` how I would know if a particular token_id is FungibleToken or NonFungibleToken?  If so, why would we not want to expose that piece of data?  As a developer intending to interface with the contract, won't I want to know if a particular token is a fungible or non fungible token when I query it?  It will likely influence where a particular token is displayed in the UI of a wallet, for example (is this a Collectible (NFT) or is this a Fungible Token?)

Author: just going to makr this here that we can bring this up at next meeting.

Should we have a spec for offchain metadata?
- We decided no spec for offchain metadata yet but maybe in the future

Does the current storage management scheme work for people?

> - The current storage management scheme works for folks

Reviewer 3: I would expect storage management would need to be more complex, because my storage requirements would go up for each FungibleToken type that I hold a balance for -- is that not the case here?  It seems fundamentally different than our existing case where the storage cost is stable/consistent

Author: Storage costs should be stable and consistent, for instance in the spike ahead implementation I did you can pick a max token_id size  , and a representation for tokens that you'd like to be fungible in nature, this costs stays constant I set a prefix of 64bit key space for BorshKeyStorage management. The difference in cost happens between or at least in estimation with the type of token. So FungibleTokens are more expensive to represent than non FungibleTokens in architecture, within my sort of large thought about the way to a standard core implementation might look. 

https://github.com/shipsgold/multi-token-standard-impl/pull/1

The result is I believe a stable storage cost estimation for whatever you're trying to create.

How freeform should this token be? Right now there is a notion of supply, which is not 100% guaranteed every token has
or wants to track supply semantics. Not having supply makes everything more difficult and requires consumers of the contract
to track minting and burning events.
- This point was taken to show that due to lack of proper events, and having the additional capability of storing this on chain, would

> result in a reduction of complexity for consumers of the contract data.

Reviewer 3: Could you clarify what we mean with these statements?  The last bullet point in particular here sounds like a jumble of concepts and I don't understand what it's trying to say; what is `this`. in this sentence?  It feels like this should be a more direct statement like "Should this standard support the concept of a 'supply-less' token?", with a definition of what 'supply-less' means and the reasons why we have avoided adding it.  It's not clear how having events or an 'additional capability of storing this on chain' (i'm not sure what this means) would make a difference to this decision (or if it would at all)

Author: These statements are questions, that we didn't have answers to in the beginning. 
The result was to be a quick 1-2 line explanation of why we chose what we chose. There's alot of depth in the additional meeting notes. 

It's possible this is just not communicating what I'd like and it's just better to not have this section. Alternatively, beef it out to be more verbose, though a lot of the discussion I believe is captured in meeting notes.

Reviewer 3: The meeting notes having more detail is great, but I think the idea behind this as a published standard is to have the relevant information about that standard included in the standard's documentation itself.  I don't think that all of the notes from every meeting should be here, but I think that the standard should clearly describe the conclusions made as a result of those discussions, and the reasoning behind those conclusions -- Imagine you are reading this specification for the first time as a developer who is trying to decide whether to use it or another NEP, and how to use it for their use cases.

Author: These have been resolved in the rewrite of documentation to match the other standards

> Approval Management is probably out of the scope of this solution.

Reviewer 3: Is it out of scope or not?  There are references to approval ids and approvers in this document -- if it's out of scope, we should not have any references to it.  I think it's also worth carefully considering this decision -- if **not** having approval management in-scope makes it impossible for current NEP-141 or NEP-171 contracts to migrate to this standard if they use approval management, then it really isn't doing what it set out to do IMHO and will lead to splintering of contract implementations due to a lack of support for this functionality (which will result in people rolling their own NEP141 and NEP171 batching so they can perform batch transfers and keep their existing approval support; something that this standard specifically aims to avoid)

Author: Nice catch! 

On approval management, we discussed this for a while too, and market participants within the discussions didn't see the need for approval management to the spec at this point in time. We decided that it could come later.  

I think the thought is that  this is to be an alternative tool in the wheelhouse. I think an example of this is the way  opensea operates allowing users to mint both erc-721 series, erc-721 one shots, and erc-1155 tokens, not quite a zero sum game. Additionally videogames have this same sort of exchange use case where it's useful to have a single contract mint and exchange vs many contracts per items. 

I think contract migration never came up, I think in part because we just viewed this a different tool. I'd be curious to know about any stats for approval management in contracts in the wild.  I started poking around at the indexer logs to just get a feel for who is using approval management in the wild. 

Let's bring this up at last call meeting for this, which is looking more like Wednesday.

# Future possibilities
[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

> Future possibilities could be around enumeration extension like for the NFT spec, an off chain data spec, approval management if it's required, and error status codes.

Reviewer 3: If we don't define enumeration, this spec isn't really usable from the wallet's perspective; without enumeration we can't show you tokens you own.  Am I missing something here?  Also, without enumeration implemented, eventually owners of large numbers of tokens will hit the viewFunction gas limit just trying to load their tokens list... IMO enumeration in a paginated way is critical to the viability of the standard.

Author: Hey good points here, for enumeration what would you be expecting to have access to that's not included within the spec. 

We assumed that the wallet team only needed to be able to be able to index mt/nft/ft prefixed items in order to be ready.

I'm linking a doc here https://hackmd.io/tTHosvAHTjeEHRTFR7Vj1A for ease that puts together some thoughts. I'm also inlining the same thoughts.

Here's some hot takes on this , this might be wallet slanted

#### `nft_total_supply(&self) -> U128`
```
/// Returns the total supply of non-fungible tokens as a string representing an
/// unsigned 128-bit integer to avoid JSON number limit of 2^53.
    fn nft_total_supply(&self) -> U128;  
```    
This is a bit strange from the multi token standard perspective, 
if you have a token_id then you can retrieve the total supply for that token_id, but you could have 1000s of different types of tokens within the same contract , additionally there's no coding in a grouping factor. 

So for instance there's no sense of owning 1000 bored apes. That series grouping is handled implicitly by metadata of the token, so consuming apps would have to decide how they want to group things. I think within the NFT enumeration there's some implicit grouping caused by being associated with the contract that doesn't hold for multi token standard.

I think the second thing here is to see that token types have different concepts of supply, it's not necessarily as straight forward. So a video game concept might 
have a few fungible coin tokens with supply 1million, they might have a few 
non fungible tokens like 10000 unique golden swords with serial numbers,
and a few gemstones 200 supply. 

How should we represent these? In theory we could have  1 token_id 1 count
Total supply could be  1,100,200 or 100,201 or some grouping of some sort

or 1 token_id 1 count, unelss it has a greator supply , so it 

we do have
```
 mt_total_supply(&self, token_id) -> U128
``` 
 but the behavior may vary if there is an assumption that nft_total_supply
 talks about one group of token_ids
 ``` 
 alternatively:
 mt_token_groups(&self, group_id: String, from_index:Option<U128>, limit: Option<U64>) -> Vec<String> 
 mt_total_supply_group(&self, group_id) -> U128
 ```
 
 This would allow consumers that want to group related token ids to be able to do that as apart of enumeration.  I think the way that devs avoid multiple storage cost is to simply return token_id as group_id, and for the interface mt_total_supply_group, just call  `mt_total_supply(&self, token_id)` .
 
 #### `fn nft_tokens(&self, from_index, limit) -> Vec<Token>` 

 ``` 
 /// Get a list of all tokens

///

/// Arguments:

/// * `from_index`: a string representing an unsigned 128-bit integer,

/// representing the starting index of tokens to return

/// * `limit`: the maximum number of tokens to return

///

/// Returns an array of Token objects, as described in Core standard

fn nft_tokens(

&self,

from_index: Option<U128>, // default: "0"

limit: Option<u64>, // default: unlimited (could fail due to gas limit)

) -> Vec<Token>;
 ```
 nft_tokens can be represented as mt_tokens(&self, from_index, limit) -> Vec<"Token">
 this is maybe a little different. is there any particular aim or usecase for this? An alternative direction would be to have a group by group grouping of this.
 
 #### `fn nft_supply_for_owner(&self, account_id: AccountId) -> U128;`
 ```
/// Get number of tokens owned by a given account
///
/// Arguments:
/// * `account_id`: a valid NEAR account
///
/// Returns the number of non-fungible tokens owned by given `account_id` as
/// a string representing the value as an unsigned 128-bit integer to avoid JSON
/// number limit of 2^53.   

fn nft_supply_for_owner(&self, account_id: AccountId) -> U128;
```
this method might be different, as there can be many different tokens would the intent here be to retrieve supply of for a particular token, as there might be fungible tokens
mixed in. We currently have 
```
mt_balance_of(&self,account_id,Vec<TokenId>)
```
There is no explict owner has these token ids. perhaps the alt or equivalent from
consuming perspective might be
```
struct TokenSupply {
tokenId: TokenId
supply : U128
}
// You may run out of gas for this so
mt_supply_for_owner(&self, account_id: AccountId, from_index: U128, limit: U64)->Vec<TokenSupply>
```
#### `nft_tokens_for_owner(self, account_id, from_index, limit)->Vec<Token>`
```
/// Get list of all tokens owned by a given account

/// Arguments:

/// * `account_id`: a valid NEAR account

/// * `from_index`: a string representing an unsigned 128-bit integer,

/// representing the starting index of tokens to return

/// * `limit`: the maximum number of tokens to return

///

/// Returns a paginated list of all tokens owned by this account

fn nft_tokens_for_owner(

&self,

account_id: AccountId,

from_index: Option<U128>, // default: "0"

limit: Option<u64>, // default: unlimited (could fail due to gas limit)

) -> Vec<Token>;

}
```
So for this we can do the same thing we did for mt_supply_for_owner only returning back 
Vec`<Token>` this has the same limits as well, where  you might intend to organize these together.
```
mt_tokens_for_owner(&self, account_id:AccountId, from_index, limit) -> Vec<Token>
```

@MaximusHaximus  what about the enumeration standard for nft's would you like to see does the above cover your concerns or needs? Are there other consumers like indexer and ecosystem participants that this helps. Finally is this the minimal set of things needed? 

We're headed towards another meeting to just get clarity. 
https://github.com/shipsgold/multi-token-standard-impl/blob/main/meetings/2021-09-13-meeting-agenda.md

Author: The other thing here for reference is that we did decide a while back to punt on enumeration for another standard post this, at future point in time. 

However, it seems like you see this as being problematic, as it will immediately prevent wallet team from doing anything with this spec. The above is mostly a few thoughts on the existing enumeration spec, and what it might mean for the token.

Reviewer 3: Imagine for a moment that there is a smart contract wherein Bob owns some quantities of 5 different kinds of FTs and some quantities of 5 different NFTs.

Now, open the wallet and ask yourself "What RPC calls should the wallet dispatch in order to identify in an efficient way that this account owns 5 NFTs and some quantities of 5 FTs from a particular MT contract, then display them in the correct parts of the UI for the user?"  Right now there is nothing in the standard at all that answers this question; as far as I can tell, the only way anyone can tell what they own is by looking through transaction histories?

If a user can't query the contract to identify _which token Ids a user owns_ or _what kinds of tokens those token IDs correspond to_, how can this standard be _practically_ be used by anyone?  If everyone who _uses_ this standard has to roll their own query-ability, then all viewing of data about MT will be fragmented and inconsistent.  IMO there is very little value of having a standard that only defines transferring tokens and doesn't address how to query those tokens.

Given the current interface, it appears that we need to know specific token IDs to do _any querying of balances_ from the smart contract.

The key questions to answer are:
1. How does someone identify which token IDs that a particular account owns some quantity of?
2. How does someone know which of those tokens are NFTs?
3. How does someone know which of those tokens are FTs?
4. How does someone load the details of the tokens from #2 and #3 in a scalable and consistent way?

Without these questions having answers in the standard, the standard will not be usable and people will write their own view layer leading to inconsistencies across implementations of the standard.

Displaying and working with FTs is a _fundamentally_ different UI flow than NFTs due to their fungibility; if we can't quickly identify FTs vs. NFTs and paginate through them, how can the wallet show the user what they own?  If a wallet can't do it using standard RPC methods, then the _user_ can't do it themselves either, even using the CLI.

While the standard does a good job of describing how one would interact with the multi token smart contract to _transfer_ tokens, without Enumeration being defined, we are missing any guidance on how someone (or a wallet app) would interact with the same smart contract in order to _view_ what a particular user owns, either via the CLI or with an intent display it to them in a sane way in a UI like the wallet.

Reviewer 3: Without proper enumeration, I think the absolute bare minimum would be a way to get a list of token IDs that a particular account owns, and whether each token ID is a FT or NFT type token.

However, as I mentioned, loading all tokens for a user in a single call without pagination will eventually break due to gas limits on view calls, so I would consider some kind of basic enumeration with pagination as a requirement for the standard if it was me.

Author: I think this has been addressed Events, Metadata, and Enumeration standards that have been added. PTAL
